Add a newbie guide (#147)
exonum/exonum-btc-anchoring: newbie_guide.md

# A complete beginner guide to BTC Anchoring

This manual is intended for people who are about to use `exonum-btc-anchoring` for the first time.

It verbose describes the process of compiling and launching the `btc_anchoring` example within
`run-dev` mode on the linux.

## Step 1. Preparing `bitcoind`

- Download `bitcoind`: [https://bitcoin.org/en/download](https://bitcoin.org/en/download)
- Install `bitcoind`:

    ```sh
    tar xzf bitcoin-0.18.0-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz
    sudo install -m 0755 -o root -g root -t /usr/local/bin bitcoin-0.18.0/bin/*
    ```

- Create a bitcoin config file: `~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf` with the following content:

    ```sh
    server=1
    regtest=1
    txindex=1
    rpcuser=user
    rpcpassword=password
    ```

- Run the `bitcoind` in the daemon mode:

    ```sh
    bitcoind --daemon
    ```

- Now `bitcoind` is running in the `regtest` mode. We should mine some blocks to obtain balance on
our account:

    Get the address of our wallet:

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest getnewaddress
    ```

>     Mine some blocks (change address to address you've obtained from the previous command):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Mine 100 blocks (change address to address you've obtained from the previous command):
```

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest generatetoaddress 100 2NFNp5RbTyEwV8yijYg9sUCHsVApiqov8DA
    ```

    Verify that balance is now non-zero:

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest getbalance
    ```

    If balance is still zero, generate 100 more blocks.

## Step 2. Compile & initial run

> - Be sure to have `exonum_launcher` installed and updated to the point at which it supports plugins.

Reviewer: Mmm, isn't it `exonum-launcher`? I'd add a link to the repo.

Author: Module name is `exonum_launcher`. Repository name is `exonum-launcher`. We're talking about module, so it's an underscore.

- Install `bitcoind`:

    ```sh
    tar xzf bitcoin-0.18.0-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz
    sudo install -m 0755 -o root -g root -t /usr/local/bin bitcoin-0.18.0/bin/*
    ```

- Create a bitcoin config file: `~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf` with the following content:

    ```sh
    server=1
    regtest=1
    txindex=1
    rpcuser=user
    rpcpassword=password
    ```

- Run the `bitcoind` in the daemon mode:

    ```sh
    bitcoind --daemon
    ```

- Now `bitcoind` is running in the `regtest` mode. We should mine some blocks to obtain balance on
our account:

    Get the address of our wallet:

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest getnewaddress
    ```

    Mine 100 blocks (change address to address you've obtained from the previous command):

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest generatetoaddress 100 2NFNp5RbTyEwV8yijYg9sUCHsVApiqov8DA
    ```

    Verify that balance is now non-zero:

    ```sh
    bitcoin-cli -regtest getbalance
    ```

    If balance is still zero, generate 100 more blocks.

## Step 2. Compile & initial run

- Be sure to have [`exonum_launcher`](https://github.com/popzxc/exonum-launcher)

> installed and updated to the point at which it supports plugins.

Author: ```suggestion
installed via `pip` (see `exonum-launcher` README for details).
```

- Install `exonum_btc_anchoring_plugin`
    (if you're using `venv`, activate `venv` in which `exonum_launcher` is installed):

    ```sh
    pip install -e exonum-btc-anchoring/launcher
    ```

- Compile and install `btc_anchoring` example:

    ```sh
    cd exonum-btc-anchoring
    cargo install --path . --example btc_anchoring --force
    ```

- Build the `exonum-btc-anchoring` project (it contains a binary that will be used later):

    ```sh
    cargo build
    ```

- Run the example

    ```sh
    RUST_LOG="exonum_btc_anchoring=info" btc_anchoring run-dev -a anchoring
    ```

    `-a anchoring` here denotes the directory in which node data will be generated.

## Step 3. Deploying & running

- First of all, we need to obtain `service_key` and `bitcoin_key`.

    To obtain `service_key`, go to the directory in which node data lies
    (in our example it's `anchoring`) and open `node.toml`.
    Here you can find `service_key`.

>     To obtain `bitcoin_key`, go to the `exonum-btc-anchoring` directory and launch

Author: ```suggestion
    To obtain `bitcoin_key`, go to the `exonum-btc-anchoring` directory and launch the following command:
```

    As a result of this call you will obtain `bitcoin_key`.
- Create file `anchoring.yml` with the following contents:

    ```yaml
    plugins:
      runtime: {}
      artifact:
        anchoring: "exonum_btc_anchoring_plugin.AnchoringInstanceSpecLoader"

    networks:
      - host: "127.0.0.1"
        ssl: false
        public-api-port: 8080
        private-api-port: 8081

    deadline_height: 10000

    artifacts:
      anchoring:
        runtime: rust
        name: "exonum-btc-anchoring:0.12.0"

    instances:
      anchoring:
        artifact: anchoring
        config:
          network: regtest
          anchoring_interval: 500
          transaction_fee: 10
          anchoring_keys:
            - bitcoin_key: "0332ab15173cf9ff8ad0946fbd515434bf1f04bb46482453474b6c38b94fa9d7b7"
              service_key: "2b89c8e1f3a6a8f18ac3276b87403e39c54c33d8275e9626ab9478df4d6d5bfc"
    ```

    Replace `bitcoin_key` and `service_key` with values obtained in the previous step.
- Run the `exonum_launcher` to start & deploy instance:

    ```sh
    python3 -m exonum_launcher -i anchoring.yml
    ```

    If everything was done correctly, service should start successfully.

>     However, it was only launched, and anchoring does not working yet.

Reviewer 2: Present Indefinite with present continuous ? Maybe `...does not work yet.` or `... is not working yet.` ?

Author: Good catch

      http://127.0.0.1:8081/api/services/anchoring/add-funds
    ```

    After that step you should see the following in the log of example:

    ```sh
    [2019-10-17T09:52:51.482127809Z INFO  exonum_btc_anchoring::blockchain::transactions] ====== ADD_FUNDS ======
    [2019-10-17T09:52:51.482197097Z INFO  exonum_btc_anchoring::blockchain::transactions] txid: 4b252989ed7596bf08107b3a07a5225b3f42db9bd71868d64ca09bab7ebcce89
    [2019-10-17T09:52:51.482206185Z INFO  exonum_btc_anchoring::blockchain::transactions] balance: 20000000000
    ```

- Finally, we can run the sync tool:

    ```sh
    cd exonum-btc-anchoring
    RUST_LOG="exonum_btc_anchoring=info" cargo run -- run --config anchoring/sync.toml
    ```

>     `anchoring/` here means the directory into which we've generated `sync.toml` earlier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    `anchoring/` in the code above means the directory where `sync.toml` was generated earlier.
```

>     On the `regtest` it will exit with an error, since blocks should be mined manually,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    On the `regtest` it will exit with an error, since blocks should be mined manually.
```

>     but in the log of the example you will see that anchoring was performed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The log of the example will show that anchoring was made:
```
